docs/api-style-guide.md, before:

# Bytebase API Style Guide

Bytebase uses REST API and this doc describes the corresponding API style guide.

The guiding principal for our style guide is **consistency**.

# Methods

## Prefer PATCH over PUT

Most of the time, we only want to do partial update on the resource, and we should use PATCH accordingly. PUT on the other hand means to overwrite the entire resource with the request fields and would more likely to reset existing fields unexpectedly.

# Resource URL naming

## Use resource id for addressing the specific resource

Bytebase uses auto incremental ID as the primary key for all resources. To address a particular resource, we use GET `/issue/42`, if we want to support other addressing mechanism like using resource name, we should use query parameter like `.issue/42?name=foo`

## Use lower case and do not use separator to split the words

Use `/foo/barbaz` instead of `/foo/barBaz` or `/foo/bar-baz`

_Rationale_: The rule is simple and thus improve consistency. e.g. Say we have a resource called `datasource`, both `data source` and `datasource` are acceptable terms, under our rule, it's always `datasource`. This does hurt readability sometimes, but most of the time, we should only have at most 2 words inside a path component of the URL and our brain is pretty good at recognizing the individual word.

_Note_: It's more common to use camelCase or dash-case. However, we are not alone, [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/) also adopts this convention.

## Use singular form even for collection resource

Use `GET /issue` instead of `GET /issues` to fetch the list of issues.

_Rationale_: Plural forms have several variations and it's hard for non-native English speakers to remember all the rules. And in practice, using singular form for collection resource won't cause confusion with the singular resource because they use different resource paths, e.g. `/issue` versus `/issue/:id`.

_Note_: We do aware this is different from the common convention. However, we are not alone, see [this Kubernetes discussion](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/18622).

## Use a separate `/{{resource}}/batch` for batch operation

If the resource supports batch operation, then use a separate `/batch` endpoint under that resource.

# Messages

## Property Name Convention

We use json messages to communicate between backend and frontend following [Google JSON Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/jsoncstyleguide.xml). Property names must be camelCased, ascii strings. Variable names in different languages should follow their own language styles, e.g. Go and Vue. However, we must use json annotation for every fields in Go API structs to enforce the same style on the wire and prevent any breaking changes by refactoring because Go will set the json property name based on field name automatically.

We can look at the following example as an interesting case. helloID follows Go style while the wired message use helloId to be consistent with Vue convention.

1. Go struct field: ``` helloID  string  `json:"helloId"` ```.
1. Json property name: ``` helloId ```.
1. Vue template name: ``` helloId ``` => ``` hello-id ```.

# Misc

1. Timestamps should be Unix timestamp (UTC timezone) in seconds whenever possible. The names should be in the format of `xxTs` such as `createdTs`. Timestamps that need precision should be nanoseconds, e.g. perf profiling. The names should be in the format of `xxNs`.

# References

1. [Google's AIP](https://google.aip.dev/)
1. [Kubernetes API reference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/)

Commit message:

chore: use lower case, kebab-case for phrases in API to be consistent with the frontend (#1002)
Former-commit-id: 7f6894ac573918d649076ae9cdc0a5e60ef50a61
Former-commit-id: f4ad68b273b45b515368921637e9eba332dcb095

docs/api-style-guide.md, after:

# Bytebase API Style Guide

Bytebase uses REST API and this doc describes the corresponding API style guide.

The guiding principal for our style guide is **consistency**.

# Methods

## Prefer PATCH over PUT

Most of the time, we only want to do partial update on the resource, and we should use PATCH accordingly. PUT on the other hand means to overwrite the entire resource with the request fields and would more likely to reset existing fields unexpectedly.

# Resource URL naming

## Use resource id for addressing the specific resource

Bytebase uses auto incremental ID as the primary key for all resources. To address a particular resource, we use GET `/issue/42`, if we want to support other addressing mechanism like using resource name, we should use query parameter like `.issue/42?name=foo`

## Use lower case, kebab-case for phrases

Use `/foo/bar-baz` instead of `/foo/barBaz` or `/foo/barbaz`

_Rationale_: To be consistent with [the URL naming from the frontend guide](https://github.com/bytebase/bytebase/blob/main/docs/fe-style-guide.md#use-lower-case-kebab-case-for-phrases). Note, we once used `/foo/barbaz` style and it has its own merits. But because it's a better option to use keba-case in the frontend URL, and to avoid brain split, we make backend API to conform the same style as well.

## Use singular form even for collection resource

Use `GET /issue` instead of `GET /issues` to fetch the list of issues.

_Rationale_: Plural forms have several variations and it's hard for non-native English speakers to remember all the rules. And in practice, using singular form for collection resource won't cause confusion with the singular resource because they use different resource paths, e.g. `/issue` versus `/issue/:id`.

_Note_: We do aware this is different from the common convention. However, we are not alone, see [this Kubernetes discussion](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/18622).

## Use a separate `/{{resource}}/batch` for batch operation

If the resource supports batch operation, then use a separate `/batch` endpoint under that resource.

# Messages

## Property Name Convention

We use json messages to communicate between backend and frontend following [Google JSON Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/jsoncstyleguide.xml). Property names must be camelCased, ascii strings. Variable names in different languages should follow their own language styles, e.g. Go and Vue. However, we must use json annotation for every fields in Go API structs to enforce the same style on the wire and prevent any breaking changes by refactoring because Go will set the json property name based on field name automatically.

We can look at the following example as an interesting case. helloID follows Go style while the wired message use helloId to be consistent with Vue convention.

1. Go struct field: ``` helloID  string  `json:"helloId"` ```.
1. Json property name: ``` helloId ```.
1. Vue template name: ``` helloId ``` => ``` hello-id ```.

# Misc

1. Timestamps should be Unix timestamp (UTC timezone) in seconds whenever possible. The names should be in the format of `xxTs` such as `createdTs`. Timestamps that need precision should be nanoseconds, e.g. perf profiling. The names should be in the format of `xxNs`.

# References

1. [Google's AIP](https://google.aip.dev/)
1. [Kubernetes API reference](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/)
