docs/dev-guide.md, before:

# Development Guide

This guide describes some development conventions we adopt at Bytebase.

## Branch Management

This section describes how to manage git branches.

Since git utilizes branches as a primary development pattern, we usually face the problem of branch management. We suggest naming your fork of the code, i.e. `${YourGithubID}/bytebase` as `origin`, and the repo `bytebase/bytebase` as `upstream`. Here's a guide for following this branch development pattern.

### Remote Tracking

After forking the `bytebase/bytebase` repository, set up the git remote tracking.

```bash
# clone your Bytebase fork
git clone git@github.com:${YourGithubID}/bytebase.git
cd bytebase
# setup upstream pointing to bytebase/bytebase
git remote add upstream git@github.com:bytebase/bytebase.git
# check the result
git remote -v
# expected outputs:
#   origin     git@github.com:${YourGithubID}/bytebase.git (fetch)
#   origin     git@github.com:${YourGithubID}/bytebase.git (push)
#   upstream   git@github.com:bytebase/bytebase.git (fetch)
#   upstream   git@github.com:bytebase/bytebase.git (push)
```

Now you have set up two tracked repositories: `upstream` for `bytebase/bytebase` and `origin` for your fork.

### Development

We usually create a new branch when we start developing a new feature. Here's a typical workflow.

```bash
# checkout to the main branch
git checkout main
# sync with the upstream
git pull upstream main
# create and checkout to your new feature branch
git checkout -b feat/xxx
# coding & commit
# push to origin
git push
# then git will prompt you with a complete command to push and track to the origin, copy & paste
git push --set-upstream origin feat/xxx
```

### Branch Naming Convention

The recommended branch naming convention is using `/` as a namespace separator, e.g., feat/xxx, chore/xxx, docs/xxx, which works nicely with 3rd party git tools such as GitLens.

## Commit Messages Guide

This section describes how we add human and machine-readable commit messages.

Refer to [Conventional Commits 1.0.0](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)

### Benefits

- Automatically generating CHANGELOGs and release notes.
- Communicating the nature of changes to teammates, the public, and other stakeholders.
- Making it easier for people to contribute to your projects, by allowing them to explore a more structured commit history.

### Summary

Conventional Commits specification is a lightweight convention on top of commit message. It provides an easy set of rules for creating an explicit commit history, which improves better readability, velocity and automation.

### Commit Message Style

The commit message should be structured as follows:

```bash
<type>[optional scope]: <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer(s)]
```

#### Header

The header is a `mandatory` line that simply describes the purpose of the change.

```bash
<type>[optional scope]: <description>
```

It consists of three parts in itself:

- `Type` - a short prefix that represents the kind of the change
- `Scope` - optional information that represents the context of the change
- `Subject` - represents a concise description of actual change

> **Note**
> There also has a colon and space(`:<space>`), which separated the type and description

#### Body

The body is optional lines that introduce the motivation behind the change or just describing slightly more detailed information.

#### Footer

The footer is optional lines that mention consequences which stems from the change - such as announcing a breaking change, linking closed issues, mentioning contributors and so on.

### Examples

#### Commit message with no body

```bash
docs: correct spelling of CHANGELOG
```

#### Commit message with scope

```bash
feat(lang): add polish language
```

#### Commit message with description and breaking change footer

```bash
feat: allow provided config object to extend other configs

BREAKING CHANGE: `extends` key in config file is now used for extending other config files
```

#### Commit message with body and footer

```bash
fix: prevent racing of requests

Introduce a request id and a reference to latest request. Dismiss
incoming responses other than from latest request.

Reviewed-by: Z
```

### Common Types

On top of defining the commit message format, the [Angular commit message conventions](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/22b96b9/CONTRIBUTING.md#-commit-message-guidelines) specify a list of useful types that cover various sorts of changes.

#### feat

Used for add some feature

```bash
feat: add some feature
feat(frontend): add some feature in frontend
```

#### fix

Used for fixed some bug

```bash
fix: fixed typo
fix(frontend): fixed some error in frontend scope
```

#### docs

Used for write some docs

```bash
docs: add a new docs
```

#### refactor

Used for refactor some old code or maybe rewrite、enchance it

```bash
refactor: rewrite some logic
```

#### style

Generally used for front-end

```bash
style: update the ui colors
```

#### test

Used for add some test case

```bash
test: test some case
```

#### perf

Used for some performance improvements.

```bash
perf: reduce the api requests when page loading
```

#### chore

Used for changes the build process, bump up version, add some configs etc.

```bash
chore: release v0.0.1
chore: bump up dependencies version
```

Checkout [more examples](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#examples)

### Tools

- [commitizen](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli) - The commitizen command line utility.
- [cz-conventional-changelog](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-conventional-changelog) - A commitizen adapter for the angular preset of [conventional-changelog](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/conventional-changelog)
- [husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) - Git hooks made easy 🐶 woof!
- [conventional-changelog-cli](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/conventional-changelog/tree/master/packages/conventional-changelog-cli) - Generate changelogs and release notes from a project's commit messages and metadata.

Commit message:

docs: update dev guide on how to locate frontend code (#7527)

docs/dev-guide.md, after:

# Development Guide

## Tips

* Use [Code Inspector](https://en.inspector.fe-dev.cn/guide/start.html#method1-recommend) to locate
frontend code from UI. Hold `Option + Shift` on Mac or `Alt + Shift` on Windows

## Branch Management

This section describes how to manage git branches.

Since git utilizes branches as a primary development pattern, we usually face the problem of branch management. We suggest naming your fork of the code, i.e. `${YourGithubID}/bytebase` as `origin`, and the repo `bytebase/bytebase` as `upstream`. Here's a guide for following this branch development pattern.

### Remote Tracking

After forking the `bytebase/bytebase` repository, set up the git remote tracking.

```bash
# clone your Bytebase fork
git clone git@github.com:${YourGithubID}/bytebase.git
cd bytebase
# setup upstream pointing to bytebase/bytebase
git remote add upstream git@github.com:bytebase/bytebase.git
# check the result
git remote -v
# expected outputs:
#   origin     git@github.com:${YourGithubID}/bytebase.git (fetch)
#   origin     git@github.com:${YourGithubID}/bytebase.git (push)
#   upstream   git@github.com:bytebase/bytebase.git (fetch)
#   upstream   git@github.com:bytebase/bytebase.git (push)
```

Now you have set up two tracked repositories: `upstream` for `bytebase/bytebase` and `origin` for your fork.

### Development

We usually create a new branch when we start developing a new feature. Here's a typical workflow.

```bash
# checkout to the main branch
git checkout main
# sync with the upstream
git pull upstream main
# create and checkout to your new feature branch
git checkout -b feat/xxx
# coding & commit
# push to origin
git push
# then git will prompt you with a complete command to push and track to the origin, copy & paste
git push --set-upstream origin feat/xxx
```

### Branch Naming Convention

The recommended branch naming convention is using `/` as a namespace separator, e.g., feat/xxx, chore/xxx, docs/xxx, which works nicely with 3rd party git tools such as GitLens.

## Commit Messages Guide

This section describes how we add human and machine-readable commit messages.

Refer to [Conventional Commits 1.0.0](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/)

### Benefits

- Automatically generating CHANGELOGs and release notes.
- Communicating the nature of changes to teammates, the public, and other stakeholders.
- Making it easier for people to contribute to your projects, by allowing them to explore a more structured commit history.

### Summary

Conventional Commits specification is a lightweight convention on top of commit message. It provides an easy set of rules for creating an explicit commit history, which improves better readability, velocity and automation.

### Commit Message Style

The commit message should be structured as follows:

```bash
<type>[optional scope]: <description>

[optional body]

[optional footer(s)]
```

#### Header

The header is a `mandatory` line that simply describes the purpose of the change.

```bash
<type>[optional scope]: <description>
```

It consists of three parts in itself:

- `Type` - a short prefix that represents the kind of the change
- `Scope` - optional information that represents the context of the change
- `Subject` - represents a concise description of actual change

> **Note**
> There also has a colon and space(`:<space>`), which separated the type and description

#### Body

The body is optional lines that introduce the motivation behind the change or just describing slightly more detailed information.

#### Footer

The footer is optional lines that mention consequences which stems from the change - such as announcing a breaking change, linking closed issues, mentioning contributors and so on.

### Examples

#### Commit message with no body

```bash
docs: correct spelling of CHANGELOG
```

#### Commit message with scope

```bash
feat(lang): add polish language
```

#### Commit message with description and breaking change footer

```bash
feat: allow provided config object to extend other configs

BREAKING CHANGE: `extends` key in config file is now used for extending other config files
```

#### Commit message with body and footer

```bash
fix: prevent racing of requests

Introduce a request id and a reference to latest request. Dismiss
incoming responses other than from latest request.

Reviewed-by: Z
```

### Common Types

On top of defining the commit message format, the [Angular commit message conventions](https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/22b96b9/CONTRIBUTING.md#-commit-message-guidelines) specify a list of useful types that cover various sorts of changes.

#### feat

Used for add some feature

```bash
feat: add some feature
feat(frontend): add some feature in frontend
```

#### fix

Used for fixed some bug

```bash
fix: fixed typo
fix(frontend): fixed some error in frontend scope
```

#### docs

Used for write some docs

```bash
docs: add a new docs
```

#### refactor

Used for refactor some old code or maybe rewrite、enchance it

```bash
refactor: rewrite some logic
```

#### style

Generally used for front-end

```bash
style: update the ui colors
```

#### test

Used for add some test case

```bash
test: test some case
```

#### perf

Used for some performance improvements.

```bash
perf: reduce the api requests when page loading
```

#### chore

Used for changes the build process, bump up version, add some configs etc.

```bash
chore: release v0.0.1
chore: bump up dependencies version
```

Checkout [more examples](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#examples)

### Tools

- [commitizen](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli) - The commitizen command line utility.
- [cz-conventional-changelog](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-conventional-changelog) - A commitizen adapter for the angular preset of [conventional-changelog](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/conventional-changelog)
- [husky](https://github.com/typicode/husky) - Git hooks made easy 🐶 woof!
- [conventional-changelog-cli](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/conventional-changelog/tree/master/packages/conventional-changelog-cli) - Generate changelogs and release notes from a project's commit messages and metadata.
